Okay so continuing on from the last lecture we have a challenge.
So create for new 32 by 32 images and use the selection modifiers in each one focus on the first one
being the shrinks selection so in one of your images used the shrink selection in the next one use gross
selection for the third use border selection and then finally use whatever you like in the fourth one
that will really help hone your skills with this selection tool.
And then finally of course I'd like you to share your work upscale its 64 by 64 and share it in the
discussions.
And here's an example of the type of image that I'll be creating.
So we've got a shield inside a border and a little drop shadow behind it.
Pause the video now and give that a go.
Okay guys welcome back.
Let's go ahead now and focus on news and selection modifiers when creating an image.
Okay everyone so we're back over in guimpe.
I have my reference shield over here.
I have a brand new 32 by 32 image that I can work with and I'm going to combine everything into one
so that this lecture remains relatively short.
And of course then we've covered everything as well.
So the first thing I'm going to focus on is a pretty border around the outside literally using the select
and the border.
I'm going to select everything in order to start with control and a selected everything then I'm going
to go up to select and go to a border.
Now how wide do I want someone to try to pick source and anglicare Okay.
Excellent.
Now I don't want to put this on the background.
I'm going to make a new layer and I'm going to call this back grauer border.
Border would make more sense than anything else.
And there we go we got a baudelaire.
And I'm just going to colour that in.
I need to pick an appropriate Brown maybe a darker brown.
There we go.
And the fill so goes for the filter.
And fill that in.
That doesn't look like it's the fill foreground colour fill.
Okay so immediately got an issue here.
Biton get around round match straightaway set of going backwards.
By going to fill hole selection and then it won't try and match any colours.
There we go.
That's that done.
And going to combine that straightaway with a shrink operation.
Some of the go to select and shrink.
Then I'll have a little raised area one pixel is fine in the middle and I'm good to make that lighter
since it is a raised area or certainly to give that effect.
Maybe that's excellent.
Okay so that's my border done I'm going to create a new laser straight away so I don't get confused
with anything else and I'm going to call it shield outline and this is going to require a bit of drawing.
There are a couple of ways I could go about making this of course.
I'm going to make it as a silhouette to begin with just to make sure I've got the overall size correct
and obviously at the moment if I try and draw anywhere I won't be able to because I've got this area
selected around the border of my image so I'm going to go ahead and select everything by selecting none.
With control shift in a.
There go.
I'm ready to draw now.
Now gilberton the size of my brush up a little to begin with.
Maybe it's 8 pixels.
Yeah that looks reasonable and I'm just going to block this out ever so roughly.
Can undo that last one and perhaps only go to there.
Okay.
And then we're going to go down to maybe there before coming in and then I'm going to turn my brush
size all the way down.
Now as always when it comes to working with a 32 by 32 image there is no direct Centre some only going
to go down to the second pixel down there and then finally let's fill this in the finish off.
Whoops.
So one left whole selection turned on find similar colours.
There we go.
So that's a rough outline for the shield.
There are a couple of other shapes she could go for of course and this is looking slightly lopsided
and I'm guessing no.
That's pretty good there.
I'm guessing I've just gone too far with one of my selections so let's just try that again.
So from here.
Probably that but does look better now.
Yes my eyes are going fuzzy.
Looking at that.
There we go.
So this is a great start we've got a silhouette of our shield.
Now I'm going to select that using the fuzzy Select Tool.
And I don't actually want it.
I've made this too big thinking about it.
I don't want it touching the border.
I want a slight gap spungen to do a couple of things.
You can go about this of course a couple of ways you could start removing some of the edge or I can
grab what selection I've currently got so I really retain that overall shape and shrink the selection
again by one now is going to bring it up by two at the bottom.
But otherwise it fits in and I can create a new layer and call this shield.
Since it was just the outline I was focussing on before this new law is going to be the shield itself
and literally pick any colour I want at this point just so it's stands out.
And then I'm going to fill this area in.
And there we go.
Now what I don't like about this of course is that there's two at the bottom so old and clear my selection
go back to the pencil tool and just fill in those two blobs at the bottom.
And we've got an area at the back here the shield outline that I might be able to use in a moment.
I'm going to turn it off so it's not in the way.
Now we've got a few extra layers to do so let's go in.
I'm going to find my shield and call this the supports for the Sheela.
Suppose I had it again.
It's probably got a technical name.
And so we need a lighter colour going from the top to the bottom but not all the way at the top.
Let's go.
Yeah.
From here to here and then back up again and then across from here to here and here to here.
Now this is the style of shield that I'm going for.
You can of course choose a completely different style.
Now if I turn the outline back on we see ah there we go.
That's what we can use this for.
It's turned into an outline.
Excellent.
I'll leave it like that now.
Let's fill in these last two bits down at the bottom making sure I'm still on support layer.
Okay that's good.
Now I'm going to put in a little.
I suppose it's a rivet in the centre here.
And in order to make that shape appropriate I'm actually going to use a growth tool.
So I've got the rivets set there and then a select black for the moment just so I can see what I'm drawing
I've got a little black area there.
I'm now going to use the Select Tool to select it the fuzzy Select Tool and then I'm going to go select
and grow that and that should give me two pixels.
Yeah let's try two pixels.
Yeah that's okay.
And if you're ever in doubt of course you can try it if it doesn't work try it again.
And then I'm going to just colorin this area essentially So it's all one colour and because it's so
small not a bother turning up my breast size.
Now Black is no good.
So now it's all one colour I can go to the fill tool.
What could any wakers at be selected so Club skip to step here.
Never mind and go to the pattern fill.
I'm just going to pick something from there that hopefully will look okay.
Let's just try something like that.
Yeah.
That standing out.
Okay.
Now the shield itself I'm going to fill that in as well.
And again this is this is just a quick way.
I need to turn off selection this is just a quick way of trying to work out whether or not it's going
to work how you expect it to.
I don't like that I want it to be darker.
Numerous ways.
Yes I like fat.
I'm going to keep that one there.
Finally we've got our support.
I don't want it just being plain white or do I all try bright red.
Shouldn't be so excited about that or maybe I should.
Let's find a foreground colour.
Make it bright red like an emblem for.
Yeah.
I like that.
And I'm going it's going to try something here.
I'm going to go ahead and duplicate that support.
So at the bottom of the layers tab itself we got a few options if every go to the duplicates.
We've now got two of them.
I can now use my fuzzy select tool to select that.
And I'm just going to grow that by one.
So grow by 1 pixel.
Okay.
That's working out so far.
And I'm not quite sure how to do the order here.
What I might do is use those as guides for doing the rest because I'm pretty sure a go over the top
of the image that I want here.
So with the support copy I'm just going to go in here and add in.
The areas that I could have probably done this now without having done any selection at all since it's
relatively precise and I quite like that.
Although at this point I feel like this sensual rivets should also be slightly larger.
So go ahead with this rivets.
Can I use a V fuzzy selectorial to get hold of that.
Almost it's not quite selecting everything out however because it's on a layer by itself.
I can go to the tool options and with sample merge turned off but select transparent 8 areas turned
on.
I can select everything that's in the background in verte that's using control and I now I can grow
that selection once more.
I one pick so tensity I'm not quite sure whether that's going to work.
I'm going to give it a go.
Let's go ahead and fill in.
Using another pattern.
Let's use the ground again.
I think I used the dried mud last time and fill hole selection.
Okay.
Let's try gradient fill instead.
And actually that's true of the black to white.
Again this is just emphasizing here.
Experiments on one try a radial coming out from here to here.
And let's go the other way.
So let's flip the colours the foreground and background.
Should try that again.
I need it brighter than that.
Let's go for golden.
Of course this is something you can play about to your heart's content.
Ah that's much much better.
I'm liking that already.
Excellent.
I'll leave that like that for the moment.
So the final thing just to make this stand out just a little is to have some sort of perhaps shadow
behind and what I can do here is I can find the shield outline and duplicate that and called it a shield
shadow.
And then once that's done I can go ahead and going to select everything for the moment and grab the
move tool.
This is a great example of how we can use them move tool to our effect shawk a key m of course with
the move to all.
I'm going to make sure is only selected on the active layer.
It's very easy otherwise just to move something you didn't intend to come and move the active layer
and just going to shift it down a little to about here.
And then I'm going to just turn the pastie of that layer down and as I turn it down it will look more
and more like a shadow.
I'm happy with that.
Apart from the shadow is now going over the top of the border.
Now if you wanted to go for that effect sure.
But at the same time I'd say perhaps make the shield pop out the top at the same time.
I don't want that in this case.
I want the shield itself to be inside a frame.
So in that case I'm going to have to go down to my border and move it up a couple.
So then it's sitting on top of that shadow rather than underneath it.
Otherwise I'm quite happy with this and how it's turned out.
How did you guys get on.
Please show your work as always over in the discussions and I will see you in the next lecture.